PwC/LoS Overview: Are you interested in the opportunity to work for an industry-leading firm that services clients that include the Fortune 500, and will give you the experience and exposure you need to build your career and personal brand? If you are, then PwC US (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its subsidiaries) may be the firm for you. We're a member of the PwC network of firms located in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC US helps organizations and individuals create the value for which they are looking. Our professionals are at the heart of our business strategy and success by bringing personal and professional experiences; we understand that our business is impacted by a person's personal and professional lives. PwC US recruits top talent with traditional and nontraditional backgrounds, with a focus on diversity and inclusion, so that we continue to build PwC US as a great place to work. Our people are armed with the tools-including enriching professional experiences, everyday coaching, timely and productive feedback, and high-quality learning and development opportunities-to deliver each day. We are committed to building lasting relationships and delivering value to our clients. Learn more about us at www.pwc.com/us From strategy through execution, PwC Advisory helps clients build their next competitive advantage. As the world's second largest global consulting provider, we combine the breadth of knowledge of over 35,000 global professionals with deep industry knowledge to deliver custom solutions for our clients. A long history of working with many of the world's largest and most complex companies means we really understand the unique business challenges our clients face better than most consultancies. Job Description: The Financial Services industry is operating in a challenging environment due to global economic pressure, increasing regulatory demands and capital requirements as well as significant operational and technology changes. Our growing Financial Services Advisory practice provides management, technology and risk consulting services to help major financial institutions around the world respond to their most complex business challenges. The Financial Services Advisory practice is composed of three industry sectors: Asset Management, Banking & Capital Markets and Insurance. The Business Applications team helps PwC clients with technical solutions used across finance, operations, human capital and customer, and is leveraged to advise on industry-specific business applications. PwC's GRC Consultants area team of business integrators with extensive consulting and industry experience who help our clients solve their complex business issues from strategy through execution. A PwC consulting career may provide the opportunity to grow and contribute in our Business Apps (GRC) competency that we apply to our clients' business issues every day, including GRC strategy and governance, Enterprise risk, Regulatory compliance, GRC technologies, and regulatory inquiries/remediation response. Governance, Risk and Compliance works with the areas of Enterprise GRC Program Development and Strategy, Information Lifecycle Compliance Management, GRC analytics and Financial Services internal and external reporting. At PwC, our team members have subject matter expertise with numerous regulatory laws and regulations including but not limited to AML/BSA, DODD-FRANK, VOLCKER, FATCA, PCI, SOX, GLBA Reg P, EU Data Privacy Directive, FCPA and others. Our team assists clients in the development and automation of enterprise GRC programs, including policy automation, e-Workpapers, Independent testing, supporting technology deployments, and conducting enterprise risk assessments, development of management risk and compliance dashboard, and incorporating GRC by design principals into product and services development in a complex global environment. Position/Program Requirements: Minimum Years of Experience: 4 years of experience in Risk Management, Compliance, Security, and/or Internal Audit Minimum Degree Required: Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or business related field Certification(s) Preferred: Archer, Metricstream or BWise GRC certification Knowledge Preferred: Demonstrates a proven record of success utilizing thorough knowledge and some exposure to the common risk management issues facing clients who provide products and services in Financial Services. Demonstrates a proven record of success utilizing thorough Operational Risk and ERM knowledge to assist businesses with the assessment and improvement of their risk management processes and program. Demonstrates a proven record of success utilizing thorough regulatory compliance knowledge to assist businesses with understanding regulatory compliance requirements and developing solutions to meet these requirements. Demonstrates thorough knowledge of strategy, operations and management in a number of functional areas of a corporation in order to have a broad understanding of risk and compliance management. Skills Preferred: Demonstrates thorough abilities to utilize industry standards and best practices to assess, advise, design, and/or recommend complex, enterprise-wide, regulatory compliance, risk management, and/or internal audit organization structures, policies and procedures, methodologies, toolkits, and templates. Demonstrates thorough abilities to perform the following as it relates to governance, risk management, and compliance strategy, organization, policy and governance: program evaluation, risk assessment, controls identification and testing, industry specific regulatory compliance (e.g., Solvency II, Basel, Dodd-Frank, FDIC etc.), Sarbanes-Oxley, Model Audit Rule, Internal Audit, and/or Risk Management. Demonstrates thorough abilities to identify and address client needs: actively participating in client discussions and meetings; communicating a broad range of Firm services; managing engagements including preparing concise, accurate documents and balancing project economics management with the occurrence of unanticipated issues. Demonstrates thorough abilities as a team member: creating a positive environment by monitoring workloads of the team while meeting client expectations and respecting the work-life quality of team members; providing candid, meaningful feedback in a timely manner; and keeping leadership informed of progress and issues. Demonstrates thorough abilities to create business requirements documents, system configuration documents, detailed functional/technical design documents, test plans and test cases, user training documents and implementation documentation as necessary Job ID: 65242BR-0
